---
layout: docs
title: Meta Data
permalink: doc/metadata
---

# {{ page.title }}

## Meta Data

Docspell processes each uploaded file. Processing involves extracting
archives, extracting text, anlyzing the extracted text and converting
the file into a pdf. Text is analyzed to find metadata that can be set
automatically. Docspell compares the extracted text against a set of
known meta data. The *Meta Data* page allows to manage this meta data:

- Tags
- Organizations
- Persons
- Equipments
- Folders


### Tags

Items can be tagged with multiple custom tags (aka labels). This
allows to describe many different workflows people may have with their
documents.

A tag can have a *category*. This is meant to group tags together. For
example, you may want to have a tag category *doctype* that is
comprised of tags like *bill*, *contract*, *receipt* and so on. Or for
workflows, a tag category *state* may exist that includes tags like
*Todo* or *Waiting*. Or you can tag items with user names to provide
"assignment" semantics. Docspell doesn't propose any workflow, but it
can help to implement some.

The tags are *not* taken into account when processing. Docspell will
not automatically associate tags to your items. The tags are only
meant to be used manually for now.


### Organization and Person

The organization entity represents an non-personal (organization or
company) correspondent of an item. Docspell will choose one or more
organizations when processing documents and associate the "best" match
with your item.

The person entitiy can appear in two roles: It may be a correspondent
or the person an item is about. So a person is either a correspondent
or a concerning person. Docspell can not know which person is which,
therefore you need to tell this by checking the box "Use for
concerning person suggestion only". If this is checked, docspell will
use this person only to suggest a concerning person. Otherwise the
person is used only for correspondent suggestions.

Document processing uses the following properties:

- name
- websites
- e-mails

The website and e-mails can be added as contact information. If these
three are present, you should get good matches from docspell. All
other fields of an organization and person are not used during
document processing. They might be useful when using this as a real
address book.


### Equipment

The equipment entity is almost like a tag. In fact, it could be
replaced by a tag with a specific known category. The difference is
that docspell will try to find a match and associate it with your
item. The equipment represents non-personal things that an item is
about. Examples are: bills or insurances for *cars*, contracts for
*houses* or *flats*.

Equipments don't have contact information, so the only property that
is used to find matches during document processing is its name.


### Folders

Folders provide a way to divide all documents into disjoint subsets.
Unlike with tags, an item can have at most one folder or none. A
folder has an owner â€“ the user who created the folder. Additionally,
it can have members: users of the collective that the owner can assign
to a folder.

When searching for items, the results are restricted to items that
have either no folder assigned or a folder where the current user is
owner or member. It can be used to control visibility when searching.
However: there are no hard access checks. For example, if the item id
is known, any user of the collective can see it and modify its meta
data.

One use case is, that you can hide items from other users, like bills
for birthday presents. In this case it is very unlikely that someone
can guess the item-id.

While folders are *not* taken into account when processing documents,
they can be specified with the upload request or a [source
url](uploading#anonymous-upload) to have them automatically set when
they arrive.


## Document Language

An important setting is the language of your documents. This helps OCR
and text analysis. You can select between English and German
currently.

Go to the *Collective Settings* page and click *Document
Language*. This will set the lanugage for all your documents. It is
not (yet) possible to specify it when uploading.
